1
AgentVNE: LLM-Augmented Graph Reinforcement Learning for
Affinity-Aware Multi-Agent Placement in Edge Agentic AI
Runze Zheng, Yuqing Zheng, Zhengyi Cheng, Long Luo, Haoxiang Luo,
Gang Sun, Senior Member, IEEE, Hongfang Yu, Senior Member, IEEE and Dusit Niyato, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—The Internet of Agents is propelling edge com-
puting toward agentic AI and edge general intelligence (EGI).
However, deploying multi-agent service (MAS) on resource-
constrained edge infrastructure presents severe challenges. MAS
service workflows are driven by complex cross-node interactions,
dynamic memory accumulation, and collaborative tool usage.
Exhibiting chain-like topological dependencies and strict affinity
constraints, these workflows demand real-time responsiveness
that exceeds the capabilities of traditional VNE algorithms
designed for static resources. To address this, we propose
AgentVNE, a cloud-edge collaborative framework utilizing a
dual-layer architecture. First, AgentVNE employs a large lan-
guage model (LLM) to identify implicit semantic constraints
and generate affinity-based resource augmentation to resolve
physical dependency issues. Second, it constructs a resource
similarity-aware neural network, utilizing a pre-training and
PPO fine-tuning strategy to precisely capture topological simi-
larities between dynamic workflows and heterogeneous networks.
By coupling semantic perception with topological reasoning, this
mechanism effectively bridges the gap between dynamic service
requirements and physical infrastructure. Simulation results
demonstrate that AgentVNE reduces workflow communication
latency to less than 40% of baselines and improves the service
acceptance rate by approximately 5%–10% under high-load
scenarios. Ultimately, this work provides a foundational solution
for the semantic-aware deployment of agentic AI.
Index Terms—Muti-Agent system, resource allocation, edge
general intelligence, agentic AI, deep reinforcement learning
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
With the convergence of 6G networks and Internet of Things
(IoT) technologies, the computing paradigm is undergoing
a fundamental shift from centralized cloud intelligence to
decentralized edge general intelligence (EGI) [1], [2], [3].
Traditional edge intelligence often relies on static, task-specific
models, making it difficult to cope with dynamic edge envi-
ronments [4], [5], [6]. However, breakthrough advancements
in multimodal large language models (LLMs) have catalyzed
the emergence of agentic AI. Unlike traditional AI that pas-
sively responds to instructions, agentic AI possesses a closed-
loop capability of Perception-Reasoning-Action, enabling it
to autonomously decompose complex goals, utilize tools, and
This work was supported in part by National Natural Science Foundation
of China (62394324).
R. Zheng, Y. Zheng, Z. Cheng, L. Luo, H. Luo, G. Sun, and H. Yu are
with the School of Information and Communication Engineering, University
of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China
(e-mail: zrz uestc@163.com; zyq uestcz@163.com; chengzywork@163.com;
llong@uestc.edu.cn; lhx991115@163.com; {gangsun, yuhf}@uestc.edu.cn).
D. Niyato is with the College of Computing and Data Science, Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore 639798 (e-mail: dniyato@ntu.edu.sg).
The corresponding authors: Long Luo and Haoxiang Luo .
perform multi-step reasoning [7], [8]. This leap in capability
drives the evolution from the Internet of Everything (IoE) to
the Internet of Agents (IoA) [9], [10].
In the vision of the IoA, billions of heterogeneous
agents would coexist at the network edge, collaborating
autonomously via semantic-aware communication protocols
[10]. According to Gartner forecasts1, by 2028, at least 15% of
daily work decisions will be made autonomously by AI agents.
This proliferation necessitates a paradigm shift from the tra-
ditional passive IoT to a proactive IoA, where edge nodes are
empowered to perceive, reason, plan, and act independently
in real-time through continuous perception-reasoning-action
loops [1], [10]. Crucially, this agentification process serves as
a fundamental enabler for EGI, allowing resource-constrained
devices to achieve multi-task generalization and cognitive au-
tonomy, thereby significantly reducing reliance on centralized
cloud infrastructures while enhancing adaptability in dynamic
environments [11], [12].
The deployment strategies of agentic AI across the cloud-
edge-end continuum significantly impact service latency and
quality. Although service placement in edge computing and
VNE has been widely studied, existing solutions struggle to
adapt to the unique workload characteristics and lifecycle
dynamics of multi-agent service (MAS) [6]. Traditional VNE
algorithms are predominantly based on static topology as-
sumptions, presupposing that service requests possess fixed
resource demands and dependency graphs [13], [14], [15].
However, agent systems reason through planning modules,
where execution paths and required sub-tasks are dynamically
generated at runtime [16], [7]. This high uncertainty triggers
real-time deformation of the service topology during the
inference process. Consequently, traditional algorithms relying
on static pre-planning become ineffective. In particular, they
fail to adapt to the resource demand drift induced by agent
self-iteration [17].
To date, the industry lacks specialized research on em-
bedding multi-agent workflows in cloud-edge-endpoint envi-
ronments. Existing studies exhibit the following limitations:
Lin et al. [4] investigated service placement and resource
allocation in mobile edge intelligence, but focused on general
computation time and energy optimization, neglecting the
collaboration logic between agents; Wang et al. [6] combined
ant colony algorithms or caching strategies for AI Agent
placement, but often considered only single-agent capacity
matching or specific content access costs, lacking modeling of
1www.gartner.com/smarterwithgartner/what-edge-computing-means-for-i
nfrastructure-and-operations-leaders
arXiv:2601.02021v1  [cs.NI]  5 Jan 2026
2
holistic MAS characteristics. Chen et al. [18] and Li et al. [19]
proposed efficient task offloading paradigms, but their task
models were limited to single-node offloading, failing to meet
the essential communication and collaboration needs between
agents. Furthermore, Fan et al. [20] proposed a dynamic
resource allocation scheme for distributed training. However,
due to the fundamental differences in traffic patterns between
training tasks and agent inference tasks, this method cannot
be directly migrated to agentic system deployment scenarios.
B. Research Motivations
Addressing these issues is not merely an optimization of
existing network slicing or resource scheduling technologies,
but a key cornerstone for building the future intelligent so-
ciety. First, it is essential for guaranteeing the scalability
and real-time performance of EGI. As agent services grow
exponentially, edge networks face immense pressure regarding
computing power and bandwidth. Efficient topology embed-
ding strategies are critical pathways to reducing large model
inference latency and improving service acceptance rates.
Researching agent-oriented network embedding can promote
the dynamic self-organization and semantic interconnection
of heterogeneous agents on physical networks, driving the
evolution from a human-centric Internet to an agent-centric in-
frastructure [2], [10]. Second, it is vital for enhancing resource
efficiency and privacy security. Precisely placing inference and
memory modules at the user-side edge significantly reduces
the bandwidth consumption of transmitting data to the cloud.
Moreover, this approach ensures that sensitive context data
remains within the local trusted domain. Consequently, it satis-
fies the increasingly stringent privacy compliance requirements
in the IoA ecosystem [21].
However, efficiently deploying AI agents in edge intelli-
gence systems faces three severe challenges:
• Challenge 1: Dual Heterogeneity of Virtual Nodes and
Physical Infrastructure Resources. The deployment
environment for agent services is no longer a cloud data
center with uniform hardware, but a complex cloud-edge
network composed of mobile devices, base stations, and
edge servers. Underlying physical nodes vary vastly in
multi-dimensional resource ratios, including computing,
storage, and communication resources. Simultaneously,
in the IoA, agents’ roles are highly subdivided, leading
to distinct resource demand ratios [22], [9]. This dual
resource heterogeneity on both the demand and supply
sides significantly increases the difficulty of resource
matching [23]. Thus, it requires deployment strategies
with finer granularity to maximize system throughput.
• Challenge 2: High Dynamics of Topology Structure
and Resource Demand. Unlike the relatively fixed
resource partitioning in traditional VNE problems, the
deployment of MAS possesses high uncertainty. On the
one hand, as the system operates, the agent’s memory
module continuously accumulates, leading to dynamic
changes in resource occupancy [3], [24]. More critically,
the MAS may automatically generate sub-tasks or invoke
external tools during inference. Then, the system will
Multi-Agent Workflow 
Cloud-Edge-Endpoint Infrastructure
Perception 
Agent
Controller/Planner 
Agent
Memory Agent
Action Agent
Reasoning & 
Tool-use Agent
Dynamic Sub-task 
Agent
Cloud Layer
Edge Layer
Endpoint Layer
Legend:
AI Agent
Physical Infrastructure Node
Data Flow
Deployment Embedding
Data Center
MEC
Server
Secure Edge 
Node
(TEE enabled)
Fig. 1.
An illustration of the MAS embedding scenario within the Cloud-
Edge-Endpoint collaborative infrastructure. It depicts the mapping of hetero-
geneous autonomous agents onto physically distributed resources ranging from
cloud data centers to edge devices.
make the service topology to dynamically expand at run-
time, creating additional node placement requirements.
Furthermore, the frequent joining and leaving of physical
nodes in edge networks requires placement algorithms to
timely cope with environmental changes and make rapid,
adaptive adjustments [25].
• Challenge 3: Hard Physical Constraints and Specific
Resource Affinity. Some agent tasks often have strong
dependencies on underlying hardware, a constraint rarely
considered in traditional VNE. For instance, for privacy
compliance, agent nodes involving sensitive data must
be placed on physical nodes with Trusted Execution
Environments (TEE) [26], [27]; similarly, video stream
processing Agents must be deployed on edge nodes
connected to cameras to reduce bandwidth consumption.
How to fully satisfy these hard constraints while balanc-
ing global service quality and latency optimization during
large-scale node mapping is an obstacle that traditional
algorithms find difficult to surmount.
C. Our Contributions
To address the aforementioned challenges, this paper pro-
poses an MAS embedding method oriented towards cloud-
edge collaboration, AgentVNE. This method adopts a dual-
layer architecture design. The first layer is LLM-assisted
constraint recognition and resource bias generation, which
leverages LLMs to identify task constraints and generate
resource bias2 for physical nodes. The second layer is deep
reinforcement learning (DRL)-based topology embedding,
which utilizes deep neural networks to extract topological
features and optimize placement strategies for minimizing
service latency. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
2Resource bias refers to an LLM-generated guidance signal that virtually
augments the attributes of specific physical nodes to prioritize them for
hardware affinity constraints. A formal definition is provided in Section III-
B-2.
3
work to investigate the affinity-aware service embedding prob-
lem specifically for MAS in cloud-edge-endpoint collaborative
networks. The main contributions of this paper are summarized
as follows:
• An LLM-Assisted Physical Constraint Perception
Mechanism: To address the strong dependency of agent
systems on specific hardware, we propose an LLM-
assisted judgment mechanism. This mechanism automat-
ically identifies constraint relationships between agent
nodes and physical nodes and invokes a bias genera-
tor to create a resource bias for target physical nodes.
Specifically, this mechanism concentrates the sampling
probability density around the affinity-constrained nodes
and their topological neighbors. This ensures that these
spatial regions are assigned higher priorities during the
node selection process, thereby inducing the workflow
placement to gravitate toward the affinity-constrained
physical nodes.
• Graph Similarity-Based Neural Network: We design a
deep neural network model fusing a column-wise neural
tensor network and self-attention mechanisms. This archi-
tecture extracts features of the agentic workflow (virtual
network) and substrate network through parallel graph
neural network (GNN) branches, respectively. Further-
more, it utilizes a Transformer encoder to capture long-
range dependencies, calculating a deep similarity matrix
between nodes. This enables the model to precisely per-
ceive the degree of matching between the physical node
resource distribution and the virtual topology structure,
effectively coping with the dual heterogeneity challenge.
• Two-Stage Evolutionary Learning Paradigm: To over-
come convergence difficulties caused by the vast solution
space, we adopt a supervised pre-training and fine-tuning
training strategy. First, we use heuristic algorithms to
generate large-scale datasets for pre-training, allowing
the model to quickly capture basic topology mapping
rules. Subsequently, we use Proximal Policy Optimization
(PPO) to fine-tune the model in a dynamic simulation
environment. This enables the model to adapt to the un-
certainty of task dynamic arrival and expansion, achieving
global performance optimization.
• Comprehensive Performance Evaluation: Simulation
results demonstrate that AgentVNE significantly outper-
forms existing baseline algorithms in terms of commu-
nication latency, service acceptance rate, and resource
utilization. Specifically, the communication latency of
workflows deployed via AgentVNE is reduced to less
than 40% of that yielded by GAL-VNE and metaheuristic
algorithms. Under high-load scenarios, the task accep-
tance rate improves by approximately 5%. Furthermore,
the proposed framework exhibits robust scalability, main-
taining rapid solving times even in large-scale network
environments.
D. Structure of This Work
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section
II introduces the system model and problem formulation. Sec-
tion III details the system architecture and design. Section IV
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT NOTATIONS
Symbol
Description
Symbol
Description
Bmax
ls
Link capacity
Breq
l
Bandwidth demand
Dprop
ls
Propagation delay
fl
uv
Link mapping var.
GS
Substrate graph
GV
Agentic workflow
Hs, Hv
Global embeddings
lv
Virtual link
NS, ES
Substrate nodes/links
NV , EV
Virtual nodes/links
ns
Substrate node
nv
Virtual node (Agent)
NR(u)
NodeRank value
Pij
Matching probability
Pu,v
Physical path
rt
Weighted avg. hops
Rnv
Resource demand
Us, Uv
Local embeddings
W
NTN tensor weights
xi,u
Node mapping var.
Zji
Similarity score
Ωns
Resource attributes
Ψnv
Affinity constraints
σi,j
Data Stream
evaluates the proposed algorithm through extensive simulation
experiments. Finally, Section VI concludes the paper. Our
work will be open at: https://github.com/zrzuestc/AgentVNE.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
This section formally defines the MAS embedding problem
within a cloud-edge collaborative environment. We model the
physical infrastructure as an substrate network and the multi-
agent collaborative task as a virtual network. The core of the
problem lies in finding a mapping function from the virtual
network to the substrate network that minimizes the end-to-end
latency of the MAS and optimizes resource utilization, subject
to constraints on computation, storage, communication, and
specific hardware affinities.
A. Substrate Network Model
The underlying physical infrastructure hosting services con-
sists of geographically distributed heterogeneous nodes, in-
cluding centralized cloud data centers, regional Mobile Edge
Computing (MEC) servers, and user-side End Devices [28].
We model the substrate network as a weighted undirected
graph GS = (N S, ES), where N S represents the set of
physical nodes, and ES represents the set of physical links.
1) Physical Node Attributes and Resource Vectors: Each
physical node ns ∈N S in the set N S = {ns
1, ns
2, . . . , ns
|N S|}
exhibits a high degree of heterogeneity. To accurately de-
scribe its capability to host LLM agents, we define a multi-
dimensional attribute tuple Ωns to characterize its resource
capacity,
Ωns =

Ccpu
ns , Cmem
ns , Cdisk
ns , Lns

.
(1)
The academic definitions of these terms are as follows:
• Computational capacity Ccpu
ns : Represents the general
computing capability of the node, typically measured
in CPU cycles (Cycles/s) or floating point operations
per second (FLOPS). This determines the rate at which
the node processes tasks such as data preprocessing and
routine logic control.
• Memory capacity Cmem
ns : Represents the available memory
capacity (GB) of the node. Each agent must individually
manage its own unique context, the length of which
fluctuates dynamically during interactions.
4
• Storage capacity Cdisk
ns : Represents the persistent storage
space of the node, used for storing massive knowledge
bases, long-term memory logs, and container images.
• Location & Affinity attributes Lns : This is a discrete set
of attributes describing the physical location features or
special hardware functionalities of the node, which is key
to handling hard constraints. It is defined as
Lns ⊆{Camera, TEE, LiDAR, . . . }.
(2)
For example, the label TEE indicates that the node
supports Intel SGX or ARM TrustZone, enabling it to run
privacy-sensitive agents [26]; the label Camera indicates
that the node is physically connected to camera sensors.
2) Physical Link Attributes and Communication Model:
Each link ls = (u, v) ∈ES in the physical link set ES
represents a communication channel between two physical
nodes. Each link ls is defined by an attribute vector Φls,
Φls =

Bmax
ls , Dprop
ls

.
(3)
• Bandwidth capacity Bmax
ls
: This parameter represents
the maximum bandwidth capacity of the link (Mbps).
In cloud-edge collaborative environments, core network
links usually possess extremely high Bmax, whereas wire-
less links from the edge to the endpoint are relatively
constrained and precious.
• Propagation delay Dprop
ls : The fixed propagation de-
lay caused by signal transmission through the physical
medium, primarily determined by physical distance.
In the substrate network, the communication path Pu,v
between any two non-directly connected nodes u and v
consists of a series of connected physical links. We assume
the substrate network runs OSPF; therefore, the equivalent
bandwidth and latency for ls = (u, v) ∈ES are pre-calculated
for simulation purposes.
B. Multi-Agent Service Network Model
Upper-layer applications are modeled as MAS. Unlike tradi-
tional microservice architectures, nodes in the MAS are Agents
with autonomous reasoning capabilities, and their interactions
constitute a directed workflow [29]. We consider an MAS
service request to be a request to deploy a directed graph,
denoted as GV = (N V , EV ).
1) Virtual Nodes (Agents) and Dynamic Resource De-
mands: The set N V
= {nv
1, nv
2, . . . , nv
|N V |} contains all
agents participating in the task (e.g., planner, coder, and
reviewer). Each virtual node nv ∈N V represents a functional
unit, and its resource demand is defined as Rnv,
Rnv =

Rcpu
nv , Rmem
nv , Rdisk
nv , Ψnv

.
(4)
In this model, we must emphasize the dynamism and speci-
ficity of LLM agent resource demands:
• Rmem
nv : The memory usage of an agent. Instead, it fluctu-
ates slightly as the task proceeds [6].
• Ψnv: This is the set of hard affinity constraints of the
agent regarding the underlying nodes. If agent nv pro-
cesses highly confidential data, then TEE ∈Ψnv [27]; if
nv is responsible for real-time video stream analysis, then
Camera ∈Ψnv [30]. These constraints define mandatory
mapping rules from virtual nodes to physical nodes.
2) Latency Modeling: The set EV represents the logical in-
teraction relationships between agents. A directed virtual link
lv = (i, j) ∈EV represents a communication demand from
agent i to agent j, where the content of the communication is
data or a prompt processed by that Agent.
• Communication latency Tcomm: Based on the assumption
of equal division of underlying link bandwidth, we con-
struct a communication latency model.
For a virtual link lv = (i, j), assuming agent i and agent
j are mapped to physical nodes u and v respectively,
and the physical path is Pu,v, the communication latency
consists of transmission delay and propagation delay,
given as follows:
Tcomm(i, j) =
X
e∈Pu,v
 σi,j
Balloc
e
+ Dprop
e

,
(5)
where σi,j is the amount of data transmitted. Balloc
e
is
the actual bandwidth allocated by physical link e to this
virtual link.
• Total service latency: The total latency of the multi-
agent service depends on the sum of the workflow’s
communication latency and the processing latency of all
agents, given as follows:
Ttotal =
X
nv∈NV
Tproc(nv) +
X
lv∈EV
Tcomm(lv),
(6)
where the processing latency Tproc is primarily determined
by the response speed of the LLM services invoked by
the agents and the complexity of the tasks. As this latency
depends on the external model’s processing capability, its
optimization falls outside the scope of this paper.
C. Problem Formulation
We formalize an optimization of service placement decision
as a Mixed-Integer Non-Linear Programming (MINLP) prob-
lem. The objective is to find a mapping scheme M to embed
the virtual network GV into the substrate network GS.
The mapping M consists of two parts, including node
mapping MN : N V →N S, and link mapping ML : EV →
P(GS).
We define the binary decision variable xi,u to represent the
node mapping relationship,
xi,u =
(
1,
if node i ∈N V is mapped to u ∈N S,
0,
otherwise.
(7)
We define the variable f l
uv to represent the virtual link
mapping relationship,
f l
uv =
(
1,
if l ∈EV traverses (u, v) ∈ES,
0,
otherwise.
(8)
The specific constraints are as follows:
5
Agent n-1:
Data Injestion
Agent n+1:
Storage
Agent n:
Privicy-Sensitive 
(Needs TEE)
Interface Server
Data Server
Security Server
Allowed mapping
Fig. 2. Schematic representation of hard physical constraints and hardware
affinity in agentic workflows. Specifically, a privacy-sensitive agent requires
exclusive mapping to a physical node equipped with a TEE, rendering other
mappings invalid.
1) Multi-dimensional Resource Capacity Constraint: For
any physical node u, the sum of the resource demands of all
agents that it hosts must not exceed its physical capacity.
X
i∈N V
xi,u · Rk
i ≤Ck
u,
∀u ∈N S,
∀k ∈{cpu, mem, disk, acc}.
(9)
2) Uniqueness Constraint: Each virtual agent must be
mapped to exactly one physical node,
X
u∈N S
xi,u = 1,
∀i ∈N V .
(10)
3) Hard Affinity and Hardware Dependency Constraints:
This is a key distinction between AgentVNE and traditional
VNE. If agent i has a specific set of hardware requirements
Ψi, it can be placed only on physical nodes that satisfy this
constraint,
xiu · I (α /∈Lu) = 0,
∀i ∈N V , ∀α ∈Ψi, ∀u ∈N S (11)
where I(·) is the indicator function. Eq.(11) expresses that if
the attribute set Lu of physical node u does not contain the
attribute α required by the agent (e.g., TEE), then xi,u must
be 0.
4) Link Bandwidth Constraint and Bandwidth Sharing
Mechanism: Unlike bandwidth slicing in traditional VNE,
data flows between agents exhibit burstiness. In the generation
phase, data is transmitted as a stream; during the reason-
ing/thinking phase, the link remains idle. In fact, in realistic
cloud-edge networks, it is rare for a service to permanently
occupy the bandwidth of a link. In wireless channels at the
edge, independent channels are assigned to each request via
multiple access methods like OFDMA or TDMA; in the core
network, bandwidth competition is managed via flow control
and congestion control [31].
When multiple virtual links are mapped onto the same
physical link e ∈ES, they share the bandwidth Bmax
e
of that
physical link. Let Fe = {l ∈EV |f l
e = 1} be the set of virtual
links passing through physical link e. Under the equal sharing
model, the actual bandwidth Balloc
e
(l) obtained by each virtual
link is
Balloc
e
(l) = min

Breq
l , Bmax
e
|Fe|

.
(12)
To ensure transmission feasibility, the physical link must be
able to carry the minimum transmission requirements of all
flows(or result in increased latency during congestion,
X
l∈EV
f l
e · Balloc
e
(l) ≤Bmax
e
,
∀e ∈ES.
(13)
Then, our goal is to minimize a weighted cost function,
which primarily includes the MAS communication latency and
the degree of resource fragmentation, as follows:
Minimize J = α ·
1
|EV |
X
(i,j)∈EV
Hops(MN(i), MN(j))
|
{z
}
Communication Cost
+ β ·
X
u∈N S
LB(u)
|
{z
}
Load Balancing Cost
,
(14)
where communication cost Hops(u, v) represents the shortest
path hop count between physical nodes u and v. When u = v
(i.e., two associated agents are deployed on the same physical
node), the hop count is 0, which is the ideal case as it
eliminates network latency. The load balancing cost LB(u)
penalizes the overload usage of nodes, encouraging balanced
resource utilization to prevent the emergence of hotspots that
could hinder the placement of subsequent requests.
D. Problem Characteristics
Based on the mathematical definitions above, the service
embedding problem proposed by AgentVNE exhibits the fol-
lowing significant characteristics:
1) NP-Hard: This problem is reducible to the VNE prob-
lem. It is known that the VNE problem encompasses Sub-
graph Isomorphism [32] and Multi-Commodity Flow [33]
problems, belonging to the NP-hard class. Furthermore, the
node mapping phase involves a variant of the Quadratic
Assignment Problem. The reason is that the cost of mapping
agent i depends on the mapping location of its neighbor agent
j. Specifically, the distance term Hops(M(i), M(j)) in the
objective function. As the number of agents |N V | and physical
nodes |N S| increases, the solution space grows exponentially
(O(|N S||N V |)), making exact solutions infeasible within poly-
nomial time.
2) Sparse Feasibility Region and Hardware Affinity: Due
to the introduction of hard affinity constraints (Eq.11), the
space of feasible solutions becomes extremely discontinuous
and sparse. Specific physical nodes exert a strong attraction
on specific types of virtual nodes. This effect greatly limits
the degrees of freedom for search algorithms. Traditional
heuristic algorithms struggle to capture such constraints, po-
tentially leading to the premature exhaustion of resources
on constrained nodes. Thus, it will increase the resource
fragmentation of the underlying network and decrease service
capacity [23].
6
Input Zone
Multi-Agent
Service Request
Agentic Workflow
Trigger Remapping
(Fluctuations)
Dynamic Monitoring & Control Plane
Layer 1: LLM-based Semantic Perception & Constraint Resolution
Layer 2: Graph Similarity Deep Embedding & Policy Optimization
Gradient
Updates
Probability Matrix
Similarity-Aware
DNN Module
Two-Stage Training
(Supervised + PPO)
Graph
Construction
VN Graph
SN Graph
Constraint
Check
LLM
Semantic
Analyzer
Virtual Topology Decoupling
Resource Bias
Generator
Resource Usage
Communication
Substrate Network
Placement
Strategy
Mapping
Result
Fig. 3. The overall framework of the proposed AgentVNE. The architecture consists of two key layers. (1) An LLM-based semantic perception layer for
constraint resolution and resource bias generation. (2) A graph similarity-based deep embedding layer for adaptive placement optimization.
3) Dynamic Topology Evolution: Unlike the relatively static
topology structure of traditional network services, MASs
possess high dynamism. The Chain-of-Thought (CoT) [34]
of agents may dynamically generate new sub-tasks during
inference, causing the node set N V and edge set EV of GV to
change at runtime. Therefore, the problem formulation is no
longer a one-time static optimization but potentially a time-
varying graph embedding [29]. Then it will require algorithms
to possess capabilities for incremental computation and rapid
re-mapping.
4) Resource Coupling: Computational resources and net-
work resources are tightly coupled in the optimization ob-
jective. To reduce communication latency, namely minimize
hops, algorithms tend to centrally place all agents on a single
powerful cloud node. However, this leads to instantaneous
overloading of that node’s compute and memory resources
(violating resources constraint). Conversely, distributed place-
ment for load balancing purposes sharply increases com-
munication latency. The MINLP formulation mathematically
quantifies this trade-off through weights α and β in the
objective function, as well as strict capacity constraints.
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN DETAILS
This section elaborates on the system architecture and
core design of AgentVNE. As shown in Fig. 3, the system
consists of two layers: (1) an LLM-based virtual-physical node
correlation capture and bias generation module, and (2) a deep
neural network-based decision module designed to encode
heterogeneous graph features. The system generates specific
node mapping schemes, and continuously optimizes policies
driven by online learning.
A. System Architecture and Workflow
As illustrated in Fig. 3, AgentVNE establishes a dual-layer
framework for the adaptive embedding of self-evolving MASs.
The architecture operates through a dual-layer coupling mech-
anism aimed at bridging the gap between semantic service
requirements and heterogeneous physical infrastructure.
1) Layer 1: Semantic Perception and Resource Bias Injec-
tion: The first layer utilizes an LLM as a semantic parser
to address the dual heterogeneity challenge. Upon receiving
a MAS placement request, this layer analyzes the semantic
context to identify implicit hard constraints. Instead of rigid
rule matching, we introduce a topology decoupling and re-
source bias mechanism. This mechanism transforms semantic
constraints into graph-level features by decoupling restricted
agents into anchor nodes and resource nodes, while simultane-
ously injecting a resource bias into the substrate network. This
preprocessing effectively guides the subsequent embedding
probability density toward physical nodes that satisfy hard
constraints.
2) Layer 2: Deep Geometric Embedding with Evolutionary
Optimization: The second layer serves as the core decision
engine, employing a similarity-aware graph neural network.
Taking the preprocessed virtual network and substrate network
graphs as input, this module quantifies the high-order topo-
logical similarity between the agent workflow and physical
resources. To address the NP-hard nature of the embedding
problem, we adopt a two-stage training paradigm consisting of
supervised pre-training and PPO fine-tuning. This enables the
model to rapidly capture basic topology mapping rules through
supervised learning, and subsequently evolve its policy via
PPO to maximize long-term returns in dynamic environments.
3) Dynamic Closed-Loop Control: Finally, the system inte-
grates a dynamic monitoring plane. When topology evolution
or infrastructure fluctuations are detected, the control loop
7
triggers a re-reasoning process. For instance, this detection
is triggered when new virtual nodes are generated during the
execution of the multi-agent service. The updated graph state is
fed back into the neural network to generate adaptive migration
or expansion strategies, ensuring service continuity.
B. LLM-based Semantic Perception and Constraint Resolution
The first layer is the semantic perception and constraint
resolution layer based on LLM. It is primarily responsible
for the semantic matching of virtual nodes with physical
resources and the handling of hard constraints. When a multi-
agent service request arrives, the LLM first performs semantic
analysis on the service type, e.g., real-time video surveillance
stream, to identify whether strong resource affinity or location
dependency constraints exist between virtual network and sub-
strate network. For scenarios with hard physical constraints,
such as a specific computational task that must be executed
on an edge node equipped with a camera interface, the system
introduces a topology reconstruction and resource injection
mechanism:
1) Virtual Topology Decoupling: The constrained virtual
node is decoupled into a resource node, which executes
computational tasks, and a communication anchor, which has
zero resource demand. This anchor is forcibly mapped to the
target physical node to anchor the spatial location of the logical
topology.
2) Resource Bias Injection: The resource bias generator
is used to synthesize an affinity-based augmentation vector
for the target physical node. These augmented attributes are
then integrated into the feature matrix and fed into the neural
network. This bias resource is then diffused around the con-
strained node through resource iterative computation or Graph
Convolutional Networks (GCN). Therefore, this significantly
improves the selection priority of the constrained node and its
neighboring nodes in subsequent random sampling processes.
C. Similarity-Aware Feature Extraction Network
In traditional VNE studies, most existing algorithms em-
ploy heuristic or metaheuristic strategies [35]. They tend
to prioritize mapping virtual nodes with large resource de-
mands to physical nodes with the largest remaining capacities.
This capacity-driven strategy is relatively effective in low-
dimensional resource scenarios. However, it exhibits signif-
icant limitations when facing the high-dimensional hetero-
geneous resource demands of agent systems. It ignores the
shape alignment between the virtual node demand vector and
the physical node supply vector in multi-dimensional space.
This oversight easily leads to the formation of unusable,
fragmented resources on physical nodes, resulting in severe
resource fragmentation, which in turn reduces the long-term
service acceptance capability of the network [35].
Inspired by SimGNN [36], we propose that an ideal node
mapping should not only satisfy resource capacity constraints
but also consider the structural and resource coherence be-
tween virtual nodes and physical nodes with respect to their
multi-dimensional resource profiles and topological character-
istics. To this end, we design a deep neural network with both
topological awareness and resource awareness. This network
captures the deep-seated structural similarity between the
virtual network graph GV and the substrate physical graph
GS, guiding node placement toward regions with more sim-
ilar resource dimension profiles and topological relationship
similarity, thereby optimizing resource utilization efficiency.
The specific architecture of the network is shown in Fig.
4. It takes two graphs as input and outputs an association
probability matrix between node pairs.
1) Dual-Stream Graph Encoding: To extract high-order
features from heterogeneous graphs, we design a dual-stream
parallel encoding architecture. First, GCN [37] is employed to
process GV and GS separately to aggregate local neighbor-
hood information. For a physical node ns, its initial feature
vector xns encapsulates the normalized residual capacities
across diverse resource dimensions (e.g., CPU, memory, and
bandwidth). After L layers of GCN aggregation, the node
obtains the locally perceived feature Us,
U (l+1)
s
= σ( ˜D−1
2 ˜A ˜D−1
2 U (l)
s W (l)).
(15)
Similarly, the feature representation Uv for agent network
nodes is obtained.
Although GCNs excel at capturing local structures, they
struggle to perceive topological dependencies across the en-
tire graph [38]. Therefore, we further input Uv and Us
into a Transformer encoder layer. Utilizing Multi-Head Self-
Attention (MHSA) and Feed-Forward Networks (FFN), the
model dynamically weights the correlations between different
nodes, identifying global key nodes such as communication
bottlenecks or resource hubs. For the virtual network feature
Uv, its enhanced global context feature Hv after passing
through the Transformer encoder [39] is calculated follows:
U ′
v = LayerNorm(Uv + MHSA(Uv)),
Hv = LayerNorm(U ′
v + FFN(U ′
v)).
(16)
The generation process for the substrate network feature Hs
is identical to that of Hv, with the input replaced by Us.
Finally, Hv and Hs serve as high-dimensional embedding
vectors rich in global topological semantics, which are input
into the subsequent neural tensor network (NTN).
2) Column-Wise Neural Tensor Network: After obtaining
high-dimensional embeddings for the nodes, the core task is to
compute the matching score between agent node i and physical
node j. Thus, AgentVNE introduces a column-wise NTN as
the core matching module. This module performs slice-level
deep interaction on features through a learnable 3D tensor
W ∈R|N S|×d×d as follows:
Zji = hT
j Wjhi + b,
(17)
where hj and hi are the enhanced feature vectors of the
physical node and virtual node, respectively, and Wj is the
slice weight matrix in the tensor corresponding to physical
node j. This design allows the model to learn unique resource
matching patterns for each physical node [36], thereby gener-
ating a high-precision raw similarity matrix Z.
8
Output & Action
Probability Matrix 
(𝑵𝑽× 𝑵𝑺)
P
Z
Placement Action
BFS k-hop 
Strategy
Input Layer
Encoder Module
Matcher Module
Column-Wise Neural 
Tensor Network - NTN
Deep Interaction / 
Similarity Score
𝒁𝒋𝒊= 𝒉𝒔𝒋
𝑻𝑾[𝒋]𝒉𝒗𝒊
𝑾∈ℝ𝑵𝑺×𝒅×𝒅
𝑯𝒗
𝑯𝒔
𝑈𝑣
Node-Level
Embeddings
Self-
Attention
GCN
Layers
Graph-Level
Embeddings
Virtual Network
(VN) Graph
Substrate Network 
(SN) Graph with 
Resource Bias
Tools
Exec
Planner
Token Flow
Edge
Node
𝑈𝑠
𝑾[𝟏]
𝑾[𝑵𝑺]
···
𝒇
Fig. 4.
Detailed network structure of the similarity-aware feature extraction module. The architecture comprises dual-stream graph encoders for feature
learning, a Column-Wise ntn for deep similarity interaction, and a heuristic placement strategy based on the output probability matrix.
Finally, the output layer first uses the sigmoid activation
function to map the arbitrary real values of the raw similarity Z
to the non-linear interval (0, 1) to obtain matrix S as follows:
Sij = σ(Zij) =
1
1 + e−Zij .
(18)
To eliminate dimensional differences between samples and
generate a smooth probability distribution, we perform Row-
wise L2 Normalization on S. The final matching probability
Pij for mapping the i-th virtual node to the j-th physical node
is defined as:
Pij =
Sij
∥Si∥2
=
Sij
qP|N S|
k=1 S2
ik + ϵ
,
(19)
where ϵ is a small constant. This normalized probability matrix
Pij is directly used to generate priority lists to guide the
subsequent heuristic node mapping decisions.
D. Placement Strategy
The similarity matrix Z output by the network represents
only potential matching probabilities. During the training
phase, we sample from the row vectors of the similarity matrix
for each virtual node to generate substrate node priority se-
quences Lnv. In the runtime phase, the priority sequence Lnv
is constructed by ranking all substrate nodes in descending
order of their similarity probabilities.
Subsequently, we employ a heuristic search algorithm to
convert continuous probabilities into discrete actions. The
specific steps are as follows:
1) Priority List Generation: The construction of the can-
didate priority list Lnv depends on the operational phase. For
training, multiple samples are drawn stochastically based on
P(·|nv). For inference, Lnv is generated by ranking all sub-
strate nodes in descending order according to the magnitude
of their matching probabilities in P.
2) Greedy-based Breadth-First Search (BFS) Expansion
Strategy: We adopt a greedy initialization where the anchor
agent (highest resource demand and centrality) is directly
mapped to the top-ranked physical node in Lanchor. Sub-
sequently, the remaining agents are deployed via BFS. To
greedily minimize communication latency, the strategy prior-
itizes searching for available resources within the immediate
k-hop neighborhood of the preceding physical node, starting
with k = 1. The search radius is incrementally expanded
(k ←k + 1) only if no feasible solution is found, ensuring
a compact topology embedding. If an expansion step fails,
the system triggers a rollback mechanism, releasing occupied
resources, penalizing the probability of the current path.
E. Two-Stage Evolutionary Training Framework
Given the massive solution space of combinatorial opti-
mization problems, direct use of Reinforcement Learning (RL)
suffers from extremely slow cold-start convergence [35]. We
adopt a two-stage training strategy, namely supervised pre-
training and PPO fine-tuning.
1) Stage
1:
Topology-Aware
Pre-training:
We
utilize
heuristic-based algorithms to generate a large number of
⟨virtual network node, noderank⟩probability matrix samples.
By minimizing the mean squared error (MSE) loss function,
the model rapidly learns basic topology matching rules. That
is, what type of agent structure should be mapped to what
type of physical structure. According to the RW-BFS [40] and
GAL-VNE [35] for the calculation of noderank to serve as
labels for pre-training our network. The noderank algorithm
aims to comprehensively consider the computational resources
and network topology of nodes to quantify their importance
in the network. The calculation process primarily consists of
three phases, including initial resource assessment, iterative
resource propagation, and ranking sharpening.
Firstly, we define a resource assessment score H(u) for each
node u ∈V in the network. This score reflects the raw pro-
9
cessing and transmission capabilities of the node, determined
by the product of its CPU core count and communication
bandwidth as follows:
H(u) = CPU(u) × BWcomm(u),
(20)
where CPU(u) represents the number of CPU cores and
BWcomm(u) represents the node’s communication bandwidth.
By normalizing H(u) across the entire network, we obtain the
initial ranking distribution r(0) from
r(0)(u) =
H(u)
P
v∈V H(v).
(21)
Secondly to capture the influence of topological structure,
we construct a forward probability matrix PF . The matrix
element PF (u, v) represents the probability of resource con-
tribution from node u to neighbor v, which is proportional to
the resource share of v among all neighbors of u,
PF (u, v) =
(
H(v)
P
k∈N (u) H(k),
if v ∈N(u),
0,
otherwise.
(22)
Based on this matrix, the algorithm performs iterative aggrega-
tion. In each iteration t, node rankings aggregate the weighted
contributions of neighbor nodes by introducing a propagation
factor µ,
˜r(t+1) = r(t) + µ(PF · r(t)).
(23)
After each update, the vector must be normalized by r(t+1) =
˜r(t+1)/∥˜r(t+1)∥1. This process is repeated for a specific num-
ber of iterations to fully fuse local topological features [40].
Finally, to effectively identify high-priority nodes through
differentiation
and
suppress
interference
from
resource-
deficient nodes—specifically those with insufficient capacity to
host any agent—we introduce a non-linear cubic transforma-
tion. The final noderank value NR(u) is calculated as follows:
NR(u) =
(r(u))3
P
v∈V (r(v))3 .
(24)
This sharpening step amplifies numerical differences, ensuring
that nodes with high-quality aggregated resources are signifi-
cantly distinguishable in the final ranking.
2) Stage 2: Dynamic PPO Fine-tuning: Based on the pre-
trained weights, we initialize the Actor-Critic architecture. The
agent interacts with the environment and updates the policy
network parameters using the PPO algorithm based on long-
term cumulative rewards. This stage enables the model to adapt
to system stochasticity and learn to leverage resource bias for
global optimization.
The RL reward function rt aims to minimize the average
communication latency of all surviving tasks in the network
while maximizing the service acceptance rate. rt is defined as
follows:
rt =
(
Pfail,
if embedding fails,
Rsys(t),
success or no arrival,
(25)
where Pfail is a fixed penalty term for placement failure,
which occurs when the system fails to locate sufficient re-
sources to accommodate the agentic workflow. Rsys(t) rep-
resents the system operational utility at time t, defined as the
negative average congestion-weighted hops of all surviving
workflows as follows,
Rsys(t) = −
1
|Wt|
X
w∈Wt
X
lv∈EV
w
X
e∈P(lv)
Ce(t),
(26)
where Wt is the set of all surviving workflows in the network
at time t; EV
w is the set of virtual links in workflow w; P(lv) is
the underlying physical path, namely the set of physical links,
to which virtual link lv is mapped; Ce(t) denotes the number
of workflows sharing physical link e at time t.
By penalizing link congestion, this reward function guides
agents to plan routing paths that are both short and avoid
congestion. Thus, it can optimize global end-to-end latency.
Algorithm 1 AgentVNE Inference Algorithm
Require: Substrate Network GS, Agent Workflow GV ,
Model Parameters θ
Ensure: Mapping Scheme M
1: Phase 1: Semantic Perception (LLM)
2: Generate resource bias: Bbias ←LLM(GV )
3: Update substrate attributes: Ωns ←Ωns + Bbias
4: Phase 2: Deep Embedding & Matching
5: for k ∈{S, V } do
6:
Uk ←GCN(Xk, ˜Ak);
Hk ←Transformer(Uk)
7: end for
8: Compute interaction tensor Z:
9:
Zji ←hT
j Wjhi + b,
∀j ∈N S, i ∈N V
10: Generate probability matrix P:
11:
Pji ←
σ(Zji)
√P
k σ(Zki)2+ϵ
12: Phase 3: Greedy-BFS Placement
13: Map hard constraints;
14: Map anchor agent (max resource) to top-ranked node.
15: for each unmapped agent v in BFS order do
16:
upre ←M(Predecessor of v);
17:
Lv ←argsort↓(Pv,:).
18:
Search feasible u∗∈Lv starting from upre and incre-
mentally expanding k.
19:
M(v) ←u∗.
20: end for
21: Map virtual links ML using Shortest Path on GS.
22: return M
The complete process of AgentVNE inference can be shown
as Algorithm 1. The computational complexity of AgentVNE
is primarily dominated by the neural network inference, specif-
ically the self-attention and tensor matching mechanisms,
which scale quadratically with the substrate network size as
O(|N S|2). With matrix overheads masked by GPU paral-
lelism, the runtime is dominated by CPU-side logic, ensuring
robust scalability.
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In this section, we evaluate the performance of AgentVNE
through extensive simulations. We compare our framework
against other relevant methods to analyze its efficacy in
reducing latency, improving acceptance rates, and maintaining
scalability.
10
TABLE II
SIMULATION ENVIRONMENT AND HARDWARE SPECIFICATIONS
Parameter
Value/Description
Substrate Network
Topology Structure
Waxman topo α = 0.5, β = 0.2
Network Size
10 ∼600 nodes
Node Affinity Ratio
∼10% Hardware affinity
Agentic Workflow (VN)
Network Size
5 ∼7 nodes
Arrival Rate (λ)
Poisson(0.05∼0.5)
Mean Lifetime (µ)
Exp (15 ∼40)
A. Experimental Setup and Baselines
To evaluate the performance of AgentVNE, we established
a cloud-edge-endpoint collaborative simulation environment.
The substrate network is modeled as a weighted undirected
graph consisting of heterogeneous nodes, including central-
ized cloud data centers, regional MEC servers, and user-side
end devices. The substrate network is generated by Waxman
topology model [41] with α = 0.5, β = 0.2. To reflect
the distinct characteristics of the IoA, approximately 10%
of the substrate nodes are configured with specific hardware
attributes to enforce hard affinity constraints. We utilize a
locally deployed Qwen3-30B as the core for resource bias
generation in the first stage.
All simulations were implemented in Python 3.12 and
conducted on a high-performance server equipped with an
Intel Xeon® Silver 4310 CPU, an NVIDIA® Tesla® T4 GPU,
and 64 GB of RAM.
Regarding service requests, we synthesize four distinct types
of MAS workflows based on real-world frameworks such as
LangChain [42] to calibrate the actual resource consumption
profiles. As detailed in Table III, the test workflows encompass
two primary categories: Text search and image processing.
These workflows feature a node scale ranging from 5 to 7
agents and possess varying affinity requirements. In the simu-
lation, agent task arrivals follow a Poisson process, while their
service lifetimes obey an exponential distribution, simulating
a dynamic execution environment [43]. The four workflow
types follow a uniform distribution within the incoming task
stream. The specific configurations of these workflows will be
provided in the open-source repository.
To demonstrate the effectiveness of AgentVNE, we compare
it against the following baseline algorithms:
• Greedy [44]: A magnitude-centric strategy that prioritizes
physical nodes with the maximum residual resources for
placement.
• GA (Genetic Algorithm) [45]: Represents traditional
meta-heuristic algorithms that utilize population evolution
and iterative search mechanisms to identify near-optimal
mapping schemes.
• GAL-VNE [35]: A learning-based baseline employing
a pre-training paradigm to calculate node scores, sub-
sequently performing node mapping in an approximate
greedy manner based on these rankings.
TABLE III
WORKFLOW TYPE
Workflow ID
Node Number
Task Type1
Affinity Nodes
workflow 1
6
Text search
No
workflow 2
7
Text search
Yes
workflow 3
5
Image processing
No
workflow 4
6
Image processing
Yes
1 See https://github.com/zrzuestc/AgentVNE/tree/main/Workflow topo for
details.
B. Workflow Latency Analysis
Communication latency within workflows significantly im-
pacts the end-to-end response time of MASs. Therefore, we
employ the workflow weighted average hops rt of all currently
deployed tasks in the network as the core metric to measure
the post-deployment communication overhead.
1) Temporal Stability and Topology Aggregation: We first
evaluate the stability of the algorithm over the temporal
dimension. Setting the task arrival rate to 0.2 and the mean
lifetime to 30 time units, the variation of rt over 10,000
simulation steps is shown in Fig. 5a. The results indicate that
AgentVNE consistently maintains the lowest average hops,
exhibiting superior temporal stability.
AgentVNE outperforms baselines in two dimensions. First,
it reduces the average communication hops by approximately
60% compared to algorithms like GAL-VNE and GA. More
crucially, the variance of its latency fluctuation is restricted to
merely 20% or less of the baseline algorithms. This minimal
jitter demonstrates that AgentVNE provides not only lower
latency but also significantly more stable and predictable
communication performance.
Furthermore, this significant improvement is attributed to
the structural alignment capability of our dual-stream graph
encoding architecture. Traditional baseline strategies often em-
ploy a capacity-centric greedy logic. This logic tends to scatter
nodes across physical nodes with the most residual resources,
thereby disrupting workflow connectivity. In contrast, by inte-
grating GNN and Transformer modules, AgentVNE captures
the high-order topological isomorphism between the virtual
workflow and the substrate network. This enables the algo-
rithm to proactively preserve the locality of virtual links during
the mapping process. It can ensure that logically connected
agents are deployed onto physically proximal neighborhoods
for compact topological embedding.
2) Robustness under Traffic Surge: To evaluate the utility
of the algorithm under different service request pressures, we
fix the mean task lifetime at 15 time units and test performance
across varying arrival rates. As illustrated in Fig. 5b, the
average hops rt for all algorithms exhibit an upward trend
as the arrival rate increases. This phenomenon occurs because
high traffic volume exacerbates network congestion. It will
deplete continuous idle resources and force workflows to be
deployed across dispersed nodes.
However, AgentVNE demonstrates superior resilience with
the most gradual growth curve. Under high-load scenarios,
AgentVNE maintains the weighted average hops at a signif-
icantly lower level. It is approximately 30% of that yielded
11
(a)
Long-term
Weighted
Average
Hops
(b) Arrival Rate
(c) Workflow Mean Lifetime
Fig. 5. Multi-agent workflow communication latency comparison, namely weighted average hop count performance in different scenarios.
by the baseline algorithms, equivalent to a ∼70% reduction in
communication overhead.
Moreover, this performance advantage stems from two
synergistic mechanisms:
• RL-based Congestion Avoidance: The congestion penalty
mechanism embedded in our RL reward function (Eq.
26) enables the PPO agent to proactively identify and
avoid potential network bottlenecks. It guides placements
toward topologically compact regions.
• LLM-driven Affinity Anchoring: The resource augmenta-
tion mechanism captures affinity dependencies and injects
virtual resource bias into constraint-satisfying physical
nodes. This artificially elevates the ranking of these nodes
and their neighbors in the candidate priority list. Thus, it
creates a “gravitational pull” that guides the workflow
toward these anchor nodes. Since specific agents are
mandatorily bound to these affinity nodes. Then, we
cluster the remaining virtual nodes in their vicinity to
minimize the physical distance between agents. This
further reduces the global communication hop count.
3) Impact of Lifecycle and Anti-Fragmentation: We further
investigate the impact of task duration by fixing the arrival rate
at 0.2 and varying the workflow mean lifetime (Fig. 5c). As the
task lifetime extends, the resource release cycle slows down
and becomes unevenly distributed, leading to severe resource
fragmentation.
The performance gap widens as the mean lifetime increases
from 15 to 40. In long-duration scenarios, AgentVNE main-
tains the weighted average hops at approximately 44% of the
level exhibited by baseline algorithms. It demonstrates superior
anti-fragmentation capability.
Meanwhile, this advantage stems from RL-driven long-term
planning. The PPO agent learns a fragmentation-aware com-
pact placement strategy. It proactively schedules smaller sub-
tasks onto scattered resource fragments, thereby preserving
large contiguous physical resource blocks for complex col-
laborative workflows. In contrast, traditional greedy strategies,
driven by myopic decision-making, tend to occupy large con-
tiguous resource blocks indiscriminately for current requests.
It forces subsequent tasks to be deployed across dispersed,
fragmented nodes with high communication costs.
C. Service Acceptance Ratio Analysis
The service acceptance rate (SAR) is a crucial metric for
evaluating the efficacy of the workflow placement strategy.
This strategy aims to successfully deploy MASs. It also
focuses on scheduling resources under constrained conditions.
1) Temporal Stability and Constraint Adaptation: Fig. 6a il-
lustrates the variation of SAR over simulation time. AgentVNE
consistently maintains the highest acceptance rate throughout
the cycle, significantly outperforming GAL-VNE and tradi-
tional heuristics. AgentVNE’s resource bias bias mechanism
effectively pre-resolves these matching challenges. Further-
more, the PPO fine-tuning mechanism empowers the model
to continuously adapt to dynamic traffic fluctuations, ensuring
sustained high acceptance rates.
2) Robustness under Traffic Surge: To evaluate SAR per-
formance under varying service request pressures, we fix the
mean task lifetime at 30 time units and test across different
arrival rates, as shown in Fig. 6b. As the arrival rate increases
from 0.2 to 0.4, network congestion intensifies, and idle
resources become scarce, causing SAR to decline for all
algorithms. However, AgentVNE exhibits the most gradual
decrease, maintaining a SAR approximately 5%−10% higher
than baselines at high load, with an arrival rate of 0.4. This
advantage stems from its ability to perceive multi-dimensional
geometric similarity between virtual resource demands and
physical supplies. It minimizes resource fragmentation through
compact placement and delaying network saturation.
3) Impact of Lifecycle and Anti-Fragmentation: We further
explore the influence of task duration on SAR by fixing the
arrival rate at 0.25 and varying the workflow mean lifetime,
as shown in Fig. 6c. As the task lifetime extends from 20
to 40 time units, resource release cycles slow down, leading
to severe resource fragmentation. Consequently, traditional
heuristic algorithms, limited by short-sighted decision-making,
suffer a sharp decline in SAR. In contrast, AgentVNE lever-
ages the long-term reward mechanism of PPO fine-tuning
to efficiently utilize fragmented resources, maintaining near-
optimal SAR even for long-duration tasks.
Crucially, this resilience is underpinned by the NTN-enabled
Multi-dimensional Alignment mechanism. The NTN explicitly
evaluates the similarity between virtual and physical nodes
across diverse resource dimensions. This capability enables
the system to proactively schedule small-scale sub-tasks onto
micro-fragments with matching resource profiles. By ensuring
12
(a) Long-term Accepted Ratio
(b) Arrival Rate
(c) Workflow Mean Lifetime
Fig. 6. Multi-agent workflow acceptance rates comparison, namely deployment success rates in different scenarios
TABLE IV
SCALABILITY ANALYSIS: IMPACT OF NETWORK SIZE ON WORKFLOW
LATENCY UNDER PROPORTIONAL LOAD
Substrate Network Size
Arrival Rate
Average Hops
20
0.2
4.6
50
0.5
4.1
100
1.0
3.5
150
1.5
2.9
200
2.0
2.2
dimensional alignment, this mechanism effectively prevents
single-dimension exhaustion. That is a scenario where a
physical node becomes unusable due to the depletion of one
resource type (e.g., CPU) despite having ample capacity in
others. Thus, it can maximize the utilization of fragmented
resources. Consequently, the scattered idle resources within
the network are more fully exploited. This efficient resource
consolidation directly translates into a superior SAR, empow-
ering the edge infrastructure to accommodate a significantly
larger volume of concurrent agentic tasks.
D. Scalability Analysis
We design scalability simulations to verify AgentVNE’s
ability to optimize embedding quality via the resource diversity
of large-scale networks. We also use these simulations to
confirm its capacity to maintain efficient decision-making
speed as network nodes and task loads grow.
1) Impact of Network Size on Communication Overhead:
To evaluate the scalability of AgentVNE, we conduct a stress
test. It sets the number of substrate nodes ranging from 20
to 200, adopting a proportional load scaling strategy. The
task arrival rate increases linearly with the number of nodes.
The experimental results, as shown in Table IV, indicate that
as the network scale expands, the weighted average hops of
workflows decrease from 4.6 to 2.2. This demonstrates that
AgentVNE effectively leverages the denser solution space in
large-scale networks. Then, it can identify node clusters within
local neighborhoods that satisfy both topological and affinity
constraints, thereby achieving a more compact embedding.
2) Solving Efficiency: Fig. 7 illustrates the average solving
time for processing 1,000 tasks across different algorithms.
Although meta-heuristic algorithms can achieve respectable
placement quality through iterative search in complex dynamic
environments, their solving time grows quadratically with
Fig. 7. Variation of solving time over substrate network size .
network size, often exceeding tens of seconds. For real-
time agentic workflows, this high computational latency may
exceed the communication latency saved by the optimization.
In contrast, AgentVNE benefits from the parallel inference
capabilities of neural networks. Despite a fixed overhead at
small scales, its solving time increases marginally with net-
work size. In large-scale networks, for multi-agent workflows
that do not require LLM to capture placement constraints,
AgentVNE generates near-optimal solutions within seconds.
It can achieve an optimal balance between solution quality
and decision latency, thus demonstrating its practical value in
latency-sensitive edge applications.
E. Ablation Evaluation
To validate the effectiveness of the core modules within
the AgentVNE dual-layer architecture, we design ablation
experiments to separately evaluate the impact of the LLM-
assisted constraint perception module and the Reinforcement
Learning (RL)-based dynamic fine-tuning mechanism on sys-
tem performance.
1) Impact of LLM Module: We construct a variant denoted
as AgentVNEw/oLLM, which removes the semantic analysis
layer and disables the generation of the resource bias. As
shown in Table V, after removing the LLM module, although
the algorithm maintains a high SAR, its workflow weighted
average hops rt increase significantly. For example, at an
arrival rate of 0.2, the average hops of AgentVNEw/oLLM
reach 8.4, which is approximately 1.8 times that of the com-
plete AgentVNE with 4.6 hops. This indicates that without the
13
TABLE V
ABLATION ANALYSIS: IMPACT OF THE LLM-ASSISTED MODULE ON
WORKFLOW LATENCY AND SERVICE ACCEPTANCE RATE
Solution
Arrival Rate
Average Hops
AC Ratio
AgentVNEw/oLLM
0.2
8.4
97%
AgentVNEw/oLLM
0.4
10.8
66%
AgentVNEw/oLLM
0.6
15.2
46%
AgentVNEw/oRL
0.2
6.2
95%
AgentVNEw/oRL
0.4
9.8
63%
AgentVNEw/oRL
0.6
14.2
43%
AgentVNE
0.2
4.6
97%
AgentVNE
0.4
7.2
67%
AgentVNE
0.6
10.4
49%
guidance of the semantic layer, the model struggles to identify
implicit hardware affinity constraints. Thus, it will result in
agents being dispersed across nodes with abundant physical
resources but large topological distances. Conversely, with the
introduction of the LLM’s physical resource bias injection
mechanism, the system can effectively identify constraint
anchors and shift the center of sampling probability toward
the neighborhood of restricted nodes. Then, it can reduce
communication overhead by approximately 30% to 40%.
2) Impact of RL Fine-tuning: To evaluate the necessity of
PPO fine-tuning, we denote the pre-trained model without
RL updates as AgentVNEw/oRL. Experimental data reveal
that AgentVNEw/oRL outperforms AgentVNEw/oLLM in hop
performance due to the presence of LLM bias injection.
However, its SAR drops noticeably when the task arrival
rate is high, falling from 67% to 63%. This suggests that
relying solely on a pre-trained model is insufficient to cope
with highly dynamic task flows and resource fragmentation.
The AgentVNE tailored via PPO fine-tuning can learn shape
alignment strategies in the multi-dimensional resource space
through continuous interaction with the environment. Thus,
it can enhance the system’s service carrying capacity while
ensuring low latency.
Then,
to
visually
demonstrate
the
decision
logic
of
AgentVNE, we visualize a substrate nodes topo in Fig. 8 and
the node mapping probability matrices output by the model in
Fig. 9. In the setup, the workflow contains an agent that must
be placed on substrate node 6.
• Pre-training phase: As shown in Fig. 9a, the model tends
to mimic a greedy strategy, assigning extremely high
sampling probability to Node 8, which possesses the most
abundant residual resources. However, it ignores the fact
that Node 8 is topologically far from the anchor Node 6,
leading to potential long-tail communication latency.
• Fine-tuning phase: As shown in Fig. 9b, AgentVNE
rectifies the probability distribution. Despite node 8’s
high capacity, its probability is suppressed due to ex-
cessive topological distance. In contrast, nodes 3, 4, and
5, which are immediate neighbors of the anchor node
6, receive significantly improved sampling probabilities.
This proves that AgentVNE has successfully learned to
prioritize selecting topologically affine neighbor nodes
while satisfying resource constraints. Thus, it can achieve
a more compact topological embedding.
Fig. 8. Substrate nodes topology visualization. The darker the color, the more
abundant the resources.
V. RELATED WORK
VNE serves as a core technology in network virtualization.
Early research predominantly focused on resource optimiza-
tion in static environments, utilizing heuristic or meta-heuristic
algorithms to address node and link mapping problems [13],
[14]. With the proliferation of Network Function Virtualization
(NFV), the research focus has gradually shifted towards the
dynamic embedding of service function chains (SFC). For
instance, Liu and Zhang [48] proposed a DRL-based SFC
embedding framework that employs BERT to encode network
states for handling traffic fluctuations, while Fu et al. [46] de-
signed a dependency-aware SFC mapping strategy specifically
for IoT scenarios.
Moreover, to deploy AI services at the resource-constrained
edge, extensive exploration has been conducted in model
compression and collaborative inference. Chen et al. [18]
proposed an efficient offloading paradigm for computation-
intensive tasks in space-air-ground integrated networks; Yin
et al. [50] explored elastic scaling strategies for LLM services
on edge devices, analyzing the fluctuation characteristics of
inference workloads. Additionally, Kim et al. [49] introduced a
hybrid edge-cloud resource allocation mechanism to optimize
inference cost and accuracy by combining SLMs with LLMs.
However, most of these works treat AI tasks as independent
computational units or unidirectional data flow pipelines [19],
neglecting the complex semantic interactions between agents
in Agentic Systems. The topology of such systems is often a
generative graph topology [16], dynamically generated by the
planner at runtime based on inference logic. This topological
deformation, which evolves with the CoT, makes algorithms
based on predefined SFCs difficult to adapt directly.
Furthermore, with the rise of the IoA concept, resource
scheduling for MASs has become a frontier hotspot. Early
work demonstrated the feasibility of using LLMs to sim-
ulate multi-agent interactions and emergent behaviors [51].
Subsequently, frameworks such as AgentVerse [52] and Au-
toGen [53] provided the necessary infrastructure for agent
collaboration. Chen et al. [9] further facilitated collaboration
among heterogeneous LLM-based agents by introducing agent
integration protocols, an instant-messaging-like architecture,
and dynamic team-building mechanisms. Regarding resource
14
(a) Node mapping probability distribution during pre-
training phase
(b) Node mapping probability distribution after finetuning
Fig. 9. Comparison of node mapping probability matrices.
TABLE VI
COMPARISON OF AGENTVNE WITH EXISTING RELATED WORKS
Reference
Main Scenario
Service Object
Methodology
Semantic Awareness
Dynamic Topology
Fu et al. [46]
NFV-IoT
SFC / VNF
DRL (DQN)
No
Low
Lin et al. [4]
Mobile Edge Intel.
AI Service Program
MINLP / ADMM
No
Low
Xia et al. [47]
MEC
General Task
DRL (DDPG)
No
Low
Liu & Zhang [48]
Cloud/NFV
SFC
DRL (DDPG)
No
Medium
Wang et al. [6]
Edge Intelligence
AI Agent
Ant Colony + LLM
Limited
Medium
Liu et al. [49]
Hybrid Edge-Cloud
Agent Subtasks
Heuristic Scheduler
No
High
AgentVNE (Ours)
Edge Agentic AI
Multi-Agent Workflow
LLM + DRL (PPO)
High
High
allocation, Lin et al. [4] investigated service placement in
mobile edge intelligence but primarily focused on general
energy optimization. Although Fan et al. [20] proposed a
dynamic topology resource allocation scheme for distributed
training tasks, the parameter synchronization mode of dis-
tributed training differs fundamentally from the asynchronous
interaction mode of agent inference. This makes it unsuit-
able for direct application in agent-based scenarios. Xia et
al. [47] proposed a DRL-based privacy-preserving offloading
framework, and Luo et al. [26] discussed trust architectures
in multi-LLM collaboration. Wang et al. [6] incorporated ant
colony algorithms for agent placement but only considered
single-entity capacity matching. The proposed AgentVNE
aims to bridge this gap by leveraging GNNs to capture high-
order topological similarities, thereby achieving end-to-end
optimization for agentic workflows.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed AgentVNE, a cloud-edge
collaborative framework designed to orchestrate MAS within
the IoA. Addressing the limitations of traditional embedding
algorithms, AgentVNE introduces a dual-layer architecture
that synergizes LLMs with GNNs. Specifically, we utilize an
LLM-driven resource bias mechanism to resolve hard physical
constraints and a similarity-aware GNN optimized via pre-
training and PPO fine-tuning to handle topological dynamism.
Extensive simulations have demonstrated that AgentVNE sig-
nificantly outperforms existing baselines, reducing communi-
cation latency to less than 40% of that yielded by state-of-
the-art methods while improving the service acceptance rate
by approximately 5%–10% under high-load scenarios. This
work provides a foundational solution for the semantic-aware
deployment of agentic AI. Future work will focus on cross-
domain agent migration.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Zhang, G. Liu, Y. Liu, C. Zhao, J. Wang, Y. Xu, D. Niyato, J. Kang,
Y. Li, S. Mao et al., “Toward edge general intelligence with agentic AI
and agentification: Concepts, technologies, and future directions,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2508.18725, 2025.
[2] B. Li, T. Liu, W. Wang, C. Zhao, and S. Wang, “Agent-as-a-service: An
AI-native edge computing framework for 6G networks,” IEEE Network,
2024.
[3] X. Zheng, G. Sun, J. Li, J. Wang, D. Niyato, D. I. Kim, and P. Zhang,
“Exploring multi-agent dynamics for generative AI and large language
models in mobile edge networks,” IEEE Wireless Communications,
2025.
[4] Z. Lin, S. Bi, and Y.-J. A. Zhang, “Optimizing AI service placement
and resource allocation in mobile edge intelligence systems,” IEEE
Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 20, no. 11, pp. 7257–
7271, 2021.
[5] I. Taleb, J. Guillaume, and B. Duthil, “A survey on services placement
algorithms in integrated cloud-fog/edge computing,” ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 57, no. 11, pp. 1–36, 2025.
[6] X. Wang, J. He, Z. Tang, J. Guo, J. Lou, L. Qian, T. Wang, and
W. Jia, “Adaptive AI agent placement and migration in edge intelligence
systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.03345, 2025.
[7] C. Zhao, R. Zhang, J. Wang, D. Niyato, G. Sun, X. Wang, S. Mao, and
A. Jamalipour, “From agentification to self-evolving agentic AI for wire-
less networks: Concepts, approaches, and future research directions,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.05596, 2025.
[8] H. Gao, J. Geng, W. Hua, M. Hu, X. Juan, H. Liu, S. Liu, J. Qiu, X. Qi,
Y. Wu et al., “A survey of self-evolving agents: On path to artificial super
intelligence,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.21046, 2025.
[9] W. Chen, Z. You, R. Li, yitong guan, C. Qian, C. Zhao, C. Yang,
R. Xie, Z. Liu, and M. Sun, “Internet of agents: Weaving a web of
heterogeneous agents for collaborative intelligence,” in The Thirteenth
15
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=o1Et3MogPw
[10] Y. Wang, S. Guo, Y. Pan, Z. Su, F. Chen, T. H. Luan, P. Li, J. Kang,
and D. Niyato, “Internet of agents: Fundamentals, applications, and
challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.07176, 2025.
[11] L. He, L. Fan, X. Lei, P. Fan, A. Nallanathan, and G. K. Karagiannidis,
“The road toward general edge intelligence: Standing on the shoulders
of foundation models,” IEEE Communications Magazine, 2025.
[12] Y. Shen, J. Shao, X. Zhang, Z. Lin, H. Pan, D. Li, J. Zhang, and
K. B. Letaief, “Large language models empowered autonomous edge AI
for connected intelligence,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 62,
no. 10, pp. 140–146, 2024.
[13] Y. Zhang, P. Zhang, C. Jiang, S. Wang, H. Zhang, and C. Rong, “QoS
aware virtual network embedding in space-air-ground-ocean integrated
network,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 17, no. 4, pp.
1712–1723, 2024.
[14] H. Yao, X. Chen, M. Li, P. Zhang, and L. Wang, “A novel reinforcement
learning algorithm for virtual network embedding,” Neurocomputing,
vol. 284, pp. 1–9, 2018.
[15] T. Wang, L. Deng, X. Chen, J. Wang, H. He, L. Ding, W. Wu, Q. Fan,
and H. Xiong, “Virne: A comprehensive benchmark for deep RL-based
network resource allocation in NFV,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.19234,
2025.
[16] G. Zhang, K. Chen, G. Wan, H. Chang, H. Cheng, K. Wang, S. Hu,
and L. Bai, “EvoFlow: Evolving diverse agentic workflows on the fly,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07373, 2025.
[17] K. Nguyen, W. Shi, and M. St-Hilaire, “Dynamic virtual network em-
bedding leveraging neighborhood and preceding mappings information,”
IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 2024.
[18] J. Chen, W. Kuo, and W. Liao, “SpaceEdge: Optimizing service latency
and sustainability for space-centric task offloading in LEO satellite
networks,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 2024.
[19] Y. Li, X. Zhang, B. Lei, Q. Zhao, M. Wei, Z. Qu, and W. Wang,
“Incentive-driven task offloading and collaborative computing in device-
assisted MEC networks,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2024.
[20] W. Fan, D. Wang, F. Xiao, Y. Zuo, M. Lv, L. Han, and S.-Y. Hsieh,
“Dynamic topology and resource allocation for distributed training in
mobile edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing,
2025.
[21] H. Luo, J. Luo, and A. V. Vasilakos, “BC4LLM: A perspective of trusted
artificial intelligence when blockchain meets large language models,”
Neurocomputing, vol. 599, p. 128089, 2024.
[22] J. Chen, X. Wang, R. Xu, S. Yuan, Y. Zhang, W. Shi, J. Xie, S. Li,
R. Yang, T. Zhu et al., “From persona to personalization: A survey on
role-playing language agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.18231, 2024.
[23] S. Wu, N. Chen, A. Xiao, P. Zhang, C. Jiang, and W. Zhang, “AI-
empowered virtual network embedding: a comprehensive survey,” IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 2024.
[24] M. Xu, D. Niyato, and C. G. Brinton, “Serving long-context LLMs at
the mobile edge: Test-time reinforcement learning-based model caching
and inference offloading,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.14205, 2025.
[25] R. Zheng, H. Luo, G. Sun, and H. Yu, “DHBN: An efficient broadcast
protocol for blockchain networks in highly dynamic heterogeneous
environment,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Wireless Communications and
Networking Conference.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–6.
[26] H. Luo, Y. Liu, R. Zhang, J. Wang, G. Sun, D. Niyato, H. Yu,
Z. Xiong, X. Wang, and X. Shen, “Toward edge general intelligence
with multiple-large language model (Multi-LLM): architecture, trust,
and orchestration,” IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications
and Networking, 2025.
[27] H. Luo, G. Sun, Y. Liu, D. Zhao, D. Niyato, H. Yu, and S. Dustdar,
“A weighted byzantine fault tolerance consensus driven trusted multi-
ple large language models network,” IEEE Transactions on Cognitive
Communications and Networking, 2025.
[28] X. He, H. Xu, X. Xu, Y. Chen, and Z. Wang, “An efficient algorithm
for microservice placement in cloud-edge collaborative computing en-
vironment,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 17, no. 5,
pp. 1983–1997, 2024.
[29] C. Qian, Z. Xie, Y. Wang, W. Liu, K. Zhu, H. Xia, Y. Dang, Z. Du,
W. Chen, C. Yang et al., “Scaling large language model-based multi-
agent collaboration,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07155, 2024.
[30] X. Yang, L. Wen, T. Wei, Y. Ma, J. Mei, X. Li, W. Lei, D. Fu,
P. Cai, M. Dou et al., “DriveArena: A closed-loop generative simulation
platform for autonomous driving,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision, 2025, pp. 26 933–26 943.
[31] P. Anitha, H. Vimala, and J. Shreyas, “Comprehensive review on
congestion detection, alleviation, and control for IoT networks,” Journal
of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 221, p. 103749, 2024.
[32] L. P. Cordella, P. Foggia, C. Sansone, and M. Vento, “A (sub) graph
isomorphism algorithm for matching large graphs,” IEEE Transactions
on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 26, no. 10, pp. 1367–
1372, 2004.
[33] W. Szeto, Y. Iraqi, and R. Boutaba, “A multi-commodity flow based
approach to virtual network resource allocation,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference, vol. 6.
IEEE, 2003, pp.
3004–3008.
[34] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V. Le,
D. Zhou et al., “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large
language models,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 35, pp. 24 824–24 837, 2022.
[35] H. Geng, R. Wang, F. Wu, and J. Yan, “Gal-VNE: Solving the VNE
problem with global reinforcement learning and local one-shot neural
prediction,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2023, pp. 531–543.
[36] Y. Bai, H. Ding, S. Bian, T. Chen, Y. Sun, and W. Wang, “SimGNN:
A neural network approach to fast graph similarity computation,” in
Proceedings of the Twelfth ACM International Conference on Web
Search and Data Mining, 2019, pp. 384–392.
[37] T. Kipf, “Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional net-
works,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907, 2016.
[38] Q. Li, Z. Han, and X.-M. Wu, “Deeper insights into graph convolutional
networks for semi-supervised learning,” in Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 32, no. 1, 2018.
[39] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 30, 2017.
[40] X. Cheng, S. Su, Z. Zhang, H. Wang, F. Yang, Y. Luo, and J. Wang,
“Virtual network embedding through topology-aware node ranking,”
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, vol. 41, no. 2, pp.
38–47, 2011.
[41] B. M. Waxman, “Routing of multipoint connections,” IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 6, no. 9, pp. 1617–1622, 2002.
[42] H. Chase, “Langchain,” 10 2022. [Online]. Available: https://github.
com/langchain-ai/langchain
[43] F. Baccelli and P. Br´emaud, Elements of Queueing Theory: Palm
Martingale Calculus and Stochastic Recurrences.
Springer Science
& Business Media, 2013, vol. 26.
[44] L. Gong, Y. Wen, Z. Zhu, and T. Lee, “Toward profit-seeking virtual net-
work embedding algorithm via global resource capacity,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Communications.
IEEE, 2014,
pp. 1–9.
[45] B. Dab, I. Fajjari, N. Aitsaadi, and G. Pujolle, “VNR-GA: Elastic virtual
network reconfiguration algorithm based on genetic metaheuristic,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE Global Communications Conference.
IEEE,
2013, pp. 2300–2306.
[46] X. Fu, F. R. Yu, J. Wang, Q. Qi, and J. Liao, “Dynamic service function
chain embedding for NFV-enabled IoT: A deep reinforcement learning
approach,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 19,
no. 1, pp. 507–519, 2019.
[47] F. Xia, Y. Chen, and J. Huang, “Privacy-preserving task offloading
in mobile edge computing: A deep reinforcement learning approach,”
Software: Practice and Experience, vol. 54, no. 9, pp. 1774–1792, 2024.
[48] Y. Liu and J. Zhang, “Service function chain embedding meets machine
learning: Deep reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Transactions on
Network and Service Management, 2024.
[49] M. Kim et al., “HERA: Hybrid edge-cloud resource allocation for cost-
efficient AI agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.00434, 2025.
[50] W. Yin, R. Yi, D. Xu, G. Huang, M. Xu, and X. Liu, “Elastic on-
device LLM service,” in Proceedings of the 31st Annual International
Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, 2025, pp. 984–999.
[51] J. S. Park, J. O’Brien, C. J. Cai, M. R. Morris, P. Liang, and M. S.
Bernstein, “Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior,”
in Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface
Software and Technology, 2023, pp. 1–22.
[52] W. Chen, Y. Su, J. Zuo, C. Yang, C. Yuan, C.-M. Chan, H. Yu,
Y. Lu, Y.-H. Hung, C. Qian et al., “AgentVerse: Facilitating multi-agent
collaboration and exploring emergent behaviors,” in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[53] Q. Wu, G. Bansal, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, B. Li, E. Zhu, L. Jiang, X. Zhang,
S. Zhang, J. Liu et al., “AutoGen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications
via multi-agent conversations,” in First Conference on Language Mod-
eling, 2024.
